Application connections tech preview (A.K.A. MCP OAuth) (#7104)
elastic/docs-content: deploy-manage/app-connections/create-oauth-client.md

1. Find **Agents** in the navigation menu. You can also search for **Agent Builder** in the [global search bar](/explore-analyze/find-and-organize/find-apps-and-objects.md).
2. Click **Manage components** at the bottom of the left sidebar, then select **Tools**.
3. On the tools library page, click **Manage MCP**, and then select **Manage MCP clients (OAuth)**. 
4. Click **Add MCP client**.

You can also get to this page from **Admin and settings** → **Application connections** → **Manage MCP clients**.
::::

::::{step} Name the client
Enter a **Client name**. The name is visible to users during the authorization consent flow, so use something that clearly identifies the application (for example, `Claude Desktop — Engineering`).
::::

::::{step} Select a client logo
Optionally set a **Client logo** to identify the application in the list. Use **Select logo** to choose from provided options, or select **Upload logo** to use a custom image.

Selecting a logo is cosmetic, and does not pre-configure any settings.
::::

::::{step} Set the redirect URI
The redirect URI tells the authorization server where to return the user after they grant consent. Select the redirect URI type:

> - **Local** — For applications running on your local machine. The redirect URIs are pre-populated with `http://localhost:3000/callback` and `http://localhost/oauth/callback`. Replace or supplement these values to match your Agent's expected callback URL. The authorization server accepts any localhost port, but the path must match exactly. Common values:

Reviewer: missed removal of the `:3000` port

  - Claude Desktop (mcp-remote): `http://localhost/oauth/callback`
  - Claude Code CLI (native HTTP): `http://localhost/callback`
- **Remote** — For hosted or cloud-based applications. Enter a single `https://` URL. Plain HTTP is not accepted.

For local clients that need more than one redirect URI, click **Add local URL** to add additional URLs.
::::

::::{step} Optional: Generate a client secret
You can optionally select **Generate confidential MCP client** to add a client secret for extra security. This is most useful when your MCP host can store a secret securely, such as a server-side service. 

The client secret is displayed after you create the client. The secret is only displayed once and can't be retrieved later.
::::

::::{step} Save the client

> Click **Create client**. The **Copy server details for [client name]** dialog displays the values your MCP host (AI agent) needs to authenticate:

Reviewer 2: Why are we saying "AI agent" here specifically? Could mention it once in the first instance I think

---
navigation_title: "Create an MCP client"
description: "Register an MCP client in Agent Builder to get the credentials and server URL needed to connect an MCP host over OAuth."
applies_to:
  serverless: preview
products:
  - id: elasticsearch
  - id: kibana
  - id: observability
  - id: security
  - id: cloud-serverless
---

# Create an MCP client in Agent Builder [create-oauth-client]

> Register a new MCP client in {{agent-builder}} to generate the credentials that an MCP host, such as Claude Desktop, needs to connect over OAuth 2.1. This is a one-time pre-registration step: OAuth requires each client to be registered with the MCP server before any host can connect or any user can authenticate and consent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Register a new MCP client in {{agent-builder}} to generate the credentials that an MCP host, such as Claude Desktop, needs to connect over OAuth 2.1. This is a one-time pre-registration step: OAuth requires each client to be registered with the OAuth server before any host can connect or any user can authenticate and consent.
```

> Each MCP client is scoped to a single {{serverless-short}} project. Creating a client gives you a client ID and the MCP server URL for that project. For confidential clients, you also get a client secret that is shown only once and can't be retrieved later.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each OAuth client is scoped to a single {{serverless-short}} project. Creating a client gives you a client ID and the MCP server URL for that project. For confidential clients, you also get a client secret that is shown only once and can't be retrieved later.
```

1. Find **Agents** in the navigation menu. You can also search for **Agent Builder** in the [global search bar](/explore-analyze/find-and-organize/find-apps-and-objects.md).
2. Click **Manage components** at the bottom of the left sidebar, then select **Tools**.
3. On the tools library page, click **Manage MCP**, and then select **Manage MCP clients (OAuth)**. 
4. Click **Add MCP client**.

You can also get to this page from **Admin and settings** → **Application connections** → **Manage MCP clients**.
::::

::::{step} Name the client
Enter a **Client name**. The name is visible to users during the authorization consent flow, so use something that clearly identifies the application (for example, `Claude Desktop — Engineering`).
::::

::::{step} Select a client logo
Optionally set a **Client logo** to identify the application in the list. Use **Select logo** to choose from provided options, or select **Upload logo** to use a custom image.

Selecting a logo is cosmetic, and does not pre-configure any settings.
::::

::::{step} Set the redirect URI
The redirect URI tells the authorization server where to return the user after they grant consent. Select the redirect URI type:

> - **Local** — For applications running on your local machine. The field is pre-populated with `http://localhost:3000/callback`. Replace or supplement this value to match your host's expected path. The authorization server accepts any localhost port, but the path must match exactly. Common values:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Local** — For applications running on your local machine. The fields are pre-populated with `http://localhost/callback` and `http://localhost/oauth/callback`. Replace or supplement these values to match your Agent's expected callback URL. The authorization server accepts any localhost port, but the path must match exactly. Common values:
```

updated with elastic/kibana#277321

>   - Claude Desktop (mcp-remote): `http://localhost:3000/oauth/callback`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Claude Desktop (mcp-remote): `http://localhost/oauth/callback`
```

>   - Claude Code CLI (native HTTP): `http://localhost:3000/callback`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Claude Code CLI (native HTTP): `http://localhost/callback`
```

> - **Remote** — For hosted or cloud-based applications. Enter a single `https://` URI. Plain HTTP is not accepted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Remote** — For hosted or cloud-based applications. Enter a single `https://` URL. Plain HTTP is not accepted.
```

For local clients that need more than one redirect URI, click **Add local URL** to add additional URLs.
::::

::::{step} Optional: Generate a client secret
You can optionally select **Generate confidential MCP client** to add a client secret for extra security. This is most useful when your MCP host can store a secret securely, such as a server-side service. 

The client secret is displayed after you create the client. The secret is only displayed once and can't be retrieved later.
::::

::::{step} Save the client

> Click **Create client**. The **Copy server details for [client name]** dialog displays the values your MCP host needs to authenticate:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click **Create client**. The **Copy server details for [client name]** dialog displays the values your MCP host (AI agent) needs to authenticate:
```

MCP host is accurate, but IMO too technical and confusing so I am suggesting to add (AI agent) to help understand what an MCP host is.

- **Client ID**: The identifier for this client.

> - **MCP server URL**: The endpoint your MCP host uses to reach this project's {{agent-builder}} tools.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **MCP server URL**: The endpoint your MCP host (AI agent) uses to reach this project's {{agent-builder}} tools.
```

- **Client secret**: Appears for confidential clients only. This value is displayed only once and can't be retrieved later, so copy or download it before you close the dialog.

You'll use these values to [connect an MCP host](connect-mcp-host.md).

The client ID and MCP server URL can be retrieved at any time from the **MCP clients** page.
::::

:::::

<!-- 
% todo: endpoint link
:::{note}

> MCP clients can also be created through the {{kib}} API. To create a client through the API, you must use an {{ecloud}} API key with [Cloud, {{es}}, and {{kib}} API access](/deploy-manage/api-keys/elastic-cloud-api-keys.md#project-access). Creating a client with a Serverless project API key is not supported. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MCP clients can also be created through the {{kib}} API. To create a client through the API, you must use an {{ecloud}} API key with [Cloud, {{es}}, and {{kib}} API access](/deploy-manage/api-keys/elastic-cloud-api-keys.md#project-access). Creating a client with an API key created directly in {{es}} is not supported. 
```
